'

Esta asignatura ofrece una descripción de los servicios
multimedia existentes o que se implantarán en breve. Se
describe tanto la arquitectura de red que permite soportar dichos
servicios, los protocolos involucrados en su operación,
así como los estándares existentes para  cada
tipo de aplicación. Así, se estudian diversos
estándares, tanto dentro de la familia de  protocolos
IP (RTP, RTCP, SIP, etc.), como aquellos normalizados por ITU
(H.248, H.323). Se hace también un estudio de
infraestructuras utilizadas para el control, gestión y
operación de los servicios multimedia, como son el IMS en
redes móviles, o la arquitectura para la
multidifusión de servicios. También se describen las
principales características del tráfico generado por
las aplicaciones multimedia, deteniéndose en aspectos de
calidad y servicio y de tecnologías usadas para la seguridad
en la red y de la información.
Como componente práctica se realizará el
diseño y configuración de sistemas multimedia en
tiempo real, así como de monitorización y
análisis del tráfico multimedia.


This
  subject offers a description of nowadays multimedia services and
  evolution. The network architectures that allow bearing those
  services as well as the protocols involved are described. The
  standards evolution is considered, starting from those ones
  standardized from the ITU-T (H.248, H.323), protocols included in
  the IP architecture (RTC, RTCP, SIP, etc.), and  in new
  approaches such as DASH and WebRTC. The infrastructures required
  to deploy multimedia services, such us IPTV, the IMS for mobile
  networks and multicast distribution of content are analysed. The
  main features of the traffic generated by the multimedia services
  are also detailed by focusing into quality of service and
  security aspects (network and data) of nowadays
  technologies. 


The
  practical content includes the design and configuration of real
  time multimedia systems and the monitoring and analysis of
  multimedia traffic.


Below, a
  more detailed description of the content is provided:


LECTURES


1. Introduction to Multimedia Services and
  Networks

1.1 Introduction
1.2 Network components and multimedia
services.
1.3 Services classification.
1.4 Audio and Video Services.
1.5 Introduction to protocols for
real time interactive applications.
1.6 Multimedia traffic
characterization.

2. Protocols 

2.1 Sessions establishment and
control
2.2 Transport of multimedia
streams
2.3 Remote Interaction: RTSP
2.4 HTTP Streaming.

3. Network architectures

3.1  ITU Architecture: Family
of standards H.323
3.2 VoIP architecture
3.3 IpTV architecture.

4. Multicast/broadcast services

 4.1 Introduction. IP
multicast.
 4.2 Multicast protocols and
addressing.
 4.3 Application Level
Multicasting.

5. IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)

 5.1 Introduction
 5.2 Architecture: Elements,
interfaces and protocol
 5.3 Functions and services
 

PRACTICES

  
PRACTICE 1. Audio and video traffic analysis with Wireshark
protocol analyzer.
1. Analysis of speech and video applications.
2. Capture and analysis of multimedia traffic with Wireshark
3. Performance evaluation.  
 

 PRACTICE 2. Development of multimedia applications
  or services by employing java/javascript/c++ and or 3D
  tecnhnologies.

1. Get used to Android SDK, node.js, html5, webRTC/ Analysis of
3D technologies (Java3D, WebGL, HTML5, Ajax3D, Ogre, Unity3D,
OpenGL) and with communications and multimedia processing libraries
(OpenCV, sockets, etc.).
2. Study of fundamentals for Multimedia applications
development. Evaluation of IDEs, programming languages, emulators
and/or its deployment in a mobile or pc.
3. Development of a multimedia application or service and
performance evaluation of data exchange.
 

PRACTICE 3. Business voice service and security in Voice
  over IP (VoIP). Configuring a VPN for voice transmission in a
  company with different branch offices.

 1. Analysis of requiered elements, codecs and standars for
VoIP.
 2. Cisco equipments configuration for VoIP.
 3. Security tools analysis for VoIP. Risks and possible
solutions. 
 4. Connectivity tests and activations of additional
utilities such as, billing, calls redirection, etc.
 
'