'

1. Learning from an early age: the challenge of teaching English
to infants.
2. The motivational and affective factor and the importance of
keeping students¿ confidence and interest.
3. Task-based approach in the English classroom.
4. Learning by doing: significant interaction and reaction by
Total Physical Response.
5. Presenting, learning, recognising, strengthening and
evaluating grammar, vocabulary and sounds.
6. How to work with concepts and vocabulary: activities for the
English class.
7. Taking advantage of materials: realia, toys and puppets,
flashcards, posters, audio-visual aids, itools.
8. Rhymes, songs, drama, children¿s literature and
games.

1. Learning from an early age: the
challenge of teaching English to infants.
Second language acquisition popular ideas
Teaching English to very young learners
Is younger better?
Guidelines for teaching English to young children
2. The motivational and affective
factor and the importance of keeping students' confidence and
interest.
Classroom routines
Discipline
Motivation
Time management
Ways of developing a positive classroom atmosphere
3. Task-based approach in the
English classroom.
Definition and features
Connections with the communicative approach and CLIL
4. Learning by doing: significant
interaction and reaction by Total Physical Response.
The importance of learning by doing
Total Physical Response: a successful language teaching
method with young children
5. Presenting, learning,
recognising, strengthening and evaluating grammar, vocabulary and
sounds.
Learning to learn English
Assessment
Language portfolios
6. How to work with concepts and
vocabulary: activities for the English class.
Classroom language
Describing personality
Topics for the infant education classroom
7. Taking advantage of materials:
realia, toys and puppets, flashcards, posters, audio-visual aids,
itools.
How to use these teaching aids efficiently
Advantages and warnings
Examples of good activities
8. Rhymes, songs, drama, children's
literature and games.
Nursery rhymes and music
Reading aloud to children: storytelling
Short tales and fairy tales
Culture, traditions and celebrations of English-speaking
countries
Learning through play
'