'


An updated approach to the description of English: modes of
  discourse, standards and forms of English internationally.
The areas of linguistic analysis: from graphophonology to
  discourse.
Different approaches to English linguistics: between the
  traditional and the avant-garde.
Dealing with creative texts in English: literary and
  non-literary genres.
Different approaches to literature in English: between the
  traditional and the avant-garde.
English applied linguistics in the 21st century: the
  language, its users and the new international panorama.


Los contenidos de este módulo serán un reflejo del
estado actual de los estudios ingleses en el siglo XXI. Tanto en el
bloque de estudios lingüísticos como en el de estudios
literarios, empezaremos presentando los elementos descriptivos
básicos, es decir, el uso del inglés desde un punto
de vista descriptivo, y los textos creativos, con el estudio del
lenguaje utilizado, de los géneros y del hecho literario.
También se cubrirá el análisis de distintas
propuestas de estudio, como las escuelas lingüísticas y
las distintas aproximaciones al texto literario. Finalmente,
reflexionaremos sobre cómo han evolucionado en los
últimos años el propio idioma, las formas en que nos
acercamos a su estudio y descripción desde un punto de vista
científico y la aproximación a los textos
literarios.
1. An updated approach to the description of English: modes of
discourse, standards and forms of English internationally.
2. The areas of linguistic analysis - from graphophonology to
discourse
2.1. Introduction: Linguistic Studies
2.2. Science, the scientific method and gnoseology of
linguistics
2.3. Theoretical Linguistics
2.4. Applied Linguistics
2.5. The areas of Linguistic Analysis
3. Different approaches to English linguistics: between the
traditional and the avant-garde
3.1. Introduction
3.2. Historical linguistics
3.3. Sociolinguistics and dialectology
3.4. Corpus Linguistics
3.5. Cognitive Linguistics
3.6. Quantitative Linguistics
4. Dealing with creative texts in English: literary and
non-literary genres.
4.1. Introduction: the literary
canon(s)
4.2. Literary and non-literary
discourse
4.3. Literary and non-literary
genres
4.3.1. Narrative
4.3.2. Drama
4.3.3. Poetry
4.3.4. Non-fiction
4.4. Some useful resources for
the study of English literature
5. Different approaches to
literature in English: between the traditional and the
avant-garde
5.1. Introduction: literary
criticism before the 20th century
5.2. Approaches to literariness
mainly dealing with the origin (author and context of creation)
5.3.  Approaches to
literariness mainly dealing with the product (the text)
5.4. Approaches to literariness
mainly dealing with the goal (readers and context of reception)
5.5. Conclusion
6. English applied linguistics
in the 21st century: the language, its users and the new
international panorama
'